Update project.md (#9)
UPB-FILS-MA/upb-fils-ma.github.io: docs/project.md

  - software design
    - detail design
    - functional diagram
- software
- hardware

## Hardware Rules

1. It is not allowed to use processors (eg Broadcom BCM2711, Broadcom BCM2712), you can only use microprocessors. Examples of microprocessors: RP2040, nRF52, STM32 or ESP32 (RISC-V)
2. The hardware part may be designed either using a breadboard and jumper wires, a solder breadboard or a printed PCBs.

## Software Rules
It has to run software written in Rust. Students can you:
- [embassy-rs](https://embassy.dev/)
- [RTIC](https://rtic.rs/2/book/en/)
- [bare metal](https://crates.io/crates/cortex-r) - the cortex-r-rt crate
- [Tock](https://www.tockos.org)
- any other software framework that is written in Rust

## Project Rules

1. It is not allowed to copy both the code and the electronic schemes from the internet.
2. Help from external sources is not allowed, the student can be asked by the coordinator about implementation details during the development period.
3. Students are strongly encouraged to ask the lab assistant questions about the project.
4. Presentation of milestones is mandatory.

## Requirements
TBD

> 

Reviewer: 1. Block diagram - how the components communicate with each other
2. Electrical schematic - Kicad
3. Complexity: use knowledge of at least 3 laboratories excluding Tour of Rust and Hardware Introduction
Depending on the situation, there might be complex projects that don't use 3 laboratories and simple project that use 4-5 laboratories. The assistant role is to make sure the project is suited and to give ideas to make it more complex if needed, but the rule of 3 laboratories should guide them to a suited project.
4. Hardware totally functional.

## Example Projects

**Examples of projects from past years:**
1. https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2022
2. https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023

**Outstanding Projects:**
1. [POV - DAVIC picTronics](https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023/gpatru/376)
2. [Ryobo - Computer Vision & Object Following](https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023/gpatru/483)
3. [Plug & Play ChatGPT](https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023/ncaroi/plug)
4. [VENDING MACHINE](https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023/drtranca/vending.machine)

## F.A.Q
**Q:** Can I use another programming language, not Rust?

> **A:** No, the main focus of the project is to learn to work with microprocessors using Rust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**A:** No, the main focus of the project is to learn to work with microcontrollers using Rust.
```

sidebar_position: 3
---

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Project

The purpose of the project is to build a hardware device that runs software written in Rust.

## Deliverables
- documentation - we will provide a template `README.md` file in the template repository
  - short description of functionality
  - requirements (hardware and software)
  - hardware design - use fritzing, tinkercad (if the board exists) or an EDA to design it
  - software design
    - detail design
    - functional diagram
- software
- hardware

## Hardware Rules

> 1. It is not allowed to use processors/microprocessors (eg Broadcom BCM2711, Broadcom BCM2712), you can only use microcontrollers. Examples of microcontrollers: RP2040, nRF52, STM32 or ESP32 (RISC-V)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Projects have to use a microcontroller (MCU) that is capable of running Rust code. Examples of MCUs are *nRF52*, *RP2024*, *ESP32* (RISC-V version). 
2. Usage of a development board is encouraged, but not required, a custom PCB can be built. Example of development boards are:
  - [Raspberry Pi Pico](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/raspberry-pi-pico.html) (RP2024) or [Raspberry Pi Pico W](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/raspberry-pi-pico.html) for WiFi
  - [Adafruit Trinkey QT2040](https://www.adafruit.com/product/5056) (RP2040)
  - [Arduino Nano RP2040 Connect](https://store.arduino.cc/products/arduino-nano-rp2040-connect) (RP2040) - ⚠️ [^arduino_nano_rp2040_connect]
  - [micro:bit v2](https://microbit.org/) (nRF52833)
  - [nRF52 DK](https://www.nordicsemi.com/Products/Development-hardware/nrf52-dk) (nRF52810)
  - [STM32 NUCLEO-F401RE](https://ro.mouser.com/ProductDetail/STMicroelectronics/NUCLEO-F401RE?qs=sGAEpiMZZMuqBwn8WqcFUv%2FX0DKhApUpi46qP7WpjrffIid8Wo1rTg%3D%3D)
  - [ESP32-C3-DevKit-RUST-1](https://www.espressif.com/en/dev-board/esp32-c3-devkit-rust-1-en) (ESP32-C3) - ⚠️ [^esp32_riscv]
```

> 2. The hardware part may be designed either using a breadboard and jumper wires, a protoboard(solder breadboard) or a PCBs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The hardware part may be designed either using a breadboard and jumper wires, a prototype board (solder breadboard) or a PCB.
```

## Software Rules

> It has to run software written in Rust. Students can you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has to run software written in Rust. Students can use:
```

- [embassy-rs](https://embassy.dev/)
- [RTIC](https://rtic.rs/2/book/en/)

> - [bare metal](https://crates.io/crates/cortex-r) - the cortex-r-rt crate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [bare metal](https://docs.rs/cortex-m-rt/latest/cortex_m_rt) - the cortex-r-rt crate
```

- [Tock](https://www.tockos.org)
- any other software framework that is written in Rust

## Project Rules

> 1. It is not allowed to copy the code or the electronic schemes from the internet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Copying schematics or source code from the Internet is not allowed.
```

> 2. Help from external sources is not allowed, the student can be asked by the coordinator about implementation details during the development period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Each project is considered individual work, students can ask the lab assistant (lab) about implementation details during the development period.
```

3. Students are strongly encouraged to ask the lab assistant questions about the project.

> 4. Presentation of milestones is mandatory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. The presentation of milestones is mandatory.
```

4. Hardware totally functional.

## Example Projects

**Examples of projects from past years:**
1. https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2022
2. https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023

**Outstanding Projects:**
1. [POV - DAVIC picTronics](https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023/gpatru/376)
2. [Ryobo - Computer Vision & Object Following](https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023/gpatru/483)
3. [Plug & Play ChatGPT](https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023/ncaroi/plug)
4. [VENDING MACHINE](https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023/drtranca/vending.machine)

## F.A.Q
**Q:** Can I use another programming language, not Rust?

**A:** No, the main focus of the project is to learn to work with microcontrollers using Rust.

**Q:** What if the PCB comes after the hardware milestone?

> **A:** You will only present the diagram for the hardware part and if there is a prototype using breadboard, but at the end of the project you must necessarily have the PCB printed and functional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**A:** You will only present the diagram for the hardware part and if there is a prototype using breadboard, but at the end of the project you must necessarily have the PCB printed and functional.

[^arduino_nano_rp2040_connect] There is no Rust WiFi support for this board
[^esp32_riscv] not all ESP32 boards have Rust WiFi support, please take a look at the [official repository](https://github.com/esp-rs/esp-wifi/blob/main/esp-wifi/README.md).
```

- [RTIC](https://rtic.rs/2/book/en/)
- [bare metal](https://docs.rs/cortex-m-rt/latest/cortex_m_rt) - the cortex-r-rt crate
- [Tock](https://www.tockos.org)
- any other software framework that is written in Rust

## Project Rules

1. Copying schematics or source code from the Internet is not allowed.
2. Each project is considered individual work, students can ask the lab assistant (lab) about implementation details during the development period.
3. Students are strongly encouraged to ask the lab assistant questions about the project.
4. The presentation of all the milestones is mandatory.

## Requirements
1. Block diagram - how the components communicate with each other
2. Electrical schematic - Kicad
3. Complexity: use knowledge of at least 3 laboratories excluding Tour of Rust and Hardware Introduction Depending on the situation, there might be complex projects that don't use 3 laboratories and simple project that use 4-5 laboratories. The assistant role is to make sure the project is suited and to give ideas to make it more complex if needed, but the rule of 3 laboratories should guide them to a suited project.
4. Hardware fully functional.

## Example Projects

> **Examples of projects from past years:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Examples of projects from past years
```

1. https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2022
2. https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023

> **Outstanding Projects:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Outstanding Projects
```

  - [ESP32-C3-DevKit-RUST-1](https://www.espressif.com/en/dev-board/esp32-c3-devkit-rust-1-en) (ESP32-C3) - ⚠️ [^esp32_riscv]
3. The hardware part may be designed either using a breadboard and jumper wires, a prototype board (solder breadboard) or a PCB.

## Software Rules
It has to run software written in Rust. Students can use:
- [embassy-rs](https://embassy.dev/)
- [RTIC](https://rtic.rs/2/book/en/)
- [bare metal](https://docs.rs/cortex-m-rt/latest/cortex_m_rt) - the cortex-r-rt crate
- [Tock](https://www.tockos.org)
- any other software framework that is written in Rust

## Project Rules

1. Copying schematics or source code from the Internet is not allowed.
2. Each project is considered individual work, students can ask the lab assistant (lab) about implementation details during the development period.
3. Students are strongly encouraged to ask the lab assistant questions about the project.
4. The presentation of milestones is mandatory.

## Requirements
1. Block diagram - how the components communicate with each other

> 2. Electrical schematic - Kicad

Reviewer 2: These are deliverables, the requirements are more about what they need to do.

Reviewer 2: @ZamfirAndreiPaul this still has to be modified.

sidebar_position: 3
---

> ---
> sidebar_position: 3
> ---
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

# Project

The purpose of the project is to build a hardware device that runs software written in Rust.

## Deliverables

> - documentation - we will provide a template `README.md` file in the template repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the deliverables will be published in a GitHub repository that each student will be assigned to.

The repository contains:
- documentation - the reposiotry's `README.md` file
```

  - short description of functionality
  - requirements (hardware and software)
  - hardware design - use [KiCad EDA](https://www.kicad.org/) or a similar tool for the schematics
  - software design
    - detail design
    - functional diagram

> - software

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- software source code
```

> - hardware

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Students will have to build and showcase the hardware with the running software at PM Fair.
```

  - [STM32 NUCLEO-F401RE](https://ro.mouser.com/ProductDetail/STMicroelectronics/NUCLEO-F401RE?qs=sGAEpiMZZMuqBwn8WqcFUv%2FX0DKhApUpi46qP7WpjrffIid8Wo1rTg%3D%3D)
  - [ESP32-C3-DevKit-RUST-1](https://www.espressif.com/en/dev-board/esp32-c3-devkit-rust-1-en) (ESP32-C3) - ⚠️ [^esp32_riscv]
3. The hardware part may be designed either using a breadboard and jumper wires, a prototype board (solder breadboard) or a PCB.

## Software Rules
It has to run software written in Rust. Students can use:
- [embassy-rs](https://embassy.dev/)
- [RTIC](https://rtic.rs/2/book/en/)
- [bare metal](https://docs.rs/cortex-m-rt/latest/cortex_m_rt) - the cortex-r-rt crate
- [Tock](https://www.tockos.org)
- any other software framework that is written in Rust

## Project Rules

1. Copying schematics or source code from the Internet is not allowed.
2. Each project is considered individual work, students can ask the lab assistant (lab) about implementation details during the development period.
3. Students are strongly encouraged to ask the lab assistant questions about the project.
4. The presentation of all the milestones is mandatory.

## Requirements

> 1. Complexity: use knowledge of at least 3 laboratories excluding Tour of Rust and Hardware Introduction Depending on the situation, there might be complex projects that don't use 3 laboratories and simple project that use 4-5 laboratories. The assistant role is to make sure the project is suited and to give ideas to make it more complex if needed, but the rule of 3 laboratories should guide them to a suited project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. *Complexity:* use knowledge of at least 3 labs **excluding** [00 - Rust](/docs/lab/00) and [01 - Hardware Introduction](/docs/lab/01).
```

> 2. Complete documentation of the implementation both from the hardware and software point of view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. *Documentation:* Complete documentation of the implementation for both hardware and software.
```

> 3. Hardware fully functional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. *Functionality:* the hardware device has to be fully functional.
```

::note
Depending on the situation, there might be complex projects that use less then 3 labs and simple projects that use 4-5 labs. 

The lab assistant role is to make sure the project is suited and to give ideas to make it more complex if needed, but the rule of 3 labs should be the starting point.
::

---

# Project

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The purpose of the project is to build a hardware device that runs software written in Rust.

## Deliverables
- documentation - we will provide a template `README.md` file in the template repository
  - requirements (hardware and software)
  - hardware design - use fritzing, tinkercad (if the board exists) or an EDA to design it
  - software design
    - detail design
    - functional diagram
- software

## Hardware

... hardware rules

## Software

It has to run software written in Rust. Students can you:
- [embassy-rs](...)
- [RTIC]()
- [bare metal](..) - the cortex-r-rt crate
- [Tock](https://www.tockos.org)
- any other software framework that is written in Rust

```

## Example Projects

## F.A.Q
*Q:* Can I use ...?
*A:*: ...

*Q:* Can I use ...?
*A:*: ...

*Q:* Can I use ...?
*A:*: ...

...

This is a suggestion on how to structure the document

> # Rules

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Rules
```

> 1. It is not allowed to use processors (eg Broadcom BCM2711, Broadcom BCM2712), you can only use microprocessors. Examples of microprocessors: RP2040, ATmega328, nRF52, PIC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. It is not allowed to use processors (eg Broadcom BCM2711, Broadcom BCM2712), you can only use microprocessors. Examples of microprocessors: RP2040, nRF52, STM32 or ESP32 (RISC-V)
```

We cannot use Arduino or PIC, as there is not Rust support.

I would suggest rephrasing the rules and telling students what they *can* do, instead of what they *can't*.

2. It is not allowed to copy both the code and the electronic schemes from the internet.

> 3. For the hardware part, both the breadboard and printed pcbs or test cables can be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The hardware part may be designed either using a breadboard and jumper wires, a solder breadboard or a printed PCBs.
```

> 4. Help from external sources is not allowed, the student can be asked by the coordinator about implementation details during the development period.

Reviewer 2: This is not really enforceable.

> 5. The student can ask questions to the coordinator during the development period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Students are strongly encouraged to ask the lab assistant questions about the project.
```

> 6. Presentation of milestones is mandatory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Presentation of milestones is mandatory.
```

We have to add a schedule for this.

> 7. Projects must be accompanied by documentation, this should include project functionality, hardware development and software development.

Reviewer 2: This needs to be detailed.

Reviewer: For the moment can detail from this:
https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/pm/prj2021/template
I'll do one template in english before start of semester.

  - [STM32 NUCLEO-F401RE](https://ro.mouser.com/ProductDetail/STMicroelectronics/NUCLEO-F401RE?qs=sGAEpiMZZMuqBwn8WqcFUv%2FX0DKhApUpi46qP7WpjrffIid8Wo1rTg%3D%3D)
  - [ESP32-C3-DevKit-RUST-1](https://www.espressif.com/en/dev-board/esp32-c3-devkit-rust-1-en) (ESP32-C3) - ⚠️ [^esp32_riscv]
3. The hardware part may be designed either using a breadboard and jumper wires, a prototype board (solder breadboard) or a PCB.

## Software Rules
It has to run software written in Rust. Students can use:
- [embassy-rs](https://embassy.dev/)
- [RTIC](https://rtic.rs/2/book/en/)
- [bare metal](https://docs.rs/cortex-m-rt/latest/cortex_m_rt) - the cortex-r-rt crate
- [Tock](https://www.tockos.org)
- any other software framework that is written in Rust

## Project Rules

1. Copying schematics or source code from the Internet is not allowed.
2. Each project is considered individual work, students can ask the lab assistant (lab) about implementation details during the development period.
3. Students are strongly encouraged to ask the lab assistant questions about the project.
4. The presentation of all the milestones is mandatory.

## Requirements

> 1. *Complexity:* use knowledge of at least 3 labs **excluding** [00 - Rust](/docs/lab/00) and [01 - Hardware Introduction](/docs/lab/01).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. *Complexity:* use knowledge of at least 3 labs **excluding** [00 - Rust](/docs/lab/00), [01 - Hardware Introduction](/docs/lab/01) and [02 - GPIO](/docs/lab/02).
```

3. [Plug & Play ChatGPT](https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023/ncaroi/plug)
4. [VENDING MACHINE](https://ocw.cs.pub.ro/courses/pm/prj2023/drtranca/vending.machine)

## Grading

| Part | Description | Points |
|--------|-------------|--------|
| [Lecture](/docs/category/lecture) tests | You will have a test at every class with subjects from the previous class. | 2p |
| [Lab](/docs/category/lab) | Your work at every lab will be graded. | 2p |
| [Project](/docs/project) | You will have to design and implement a hardware device. Grading will be done for the documentation, hardware design and software development. | 5p |
| Exam | You will have to take an exam during the session. | 2p |
| **Total** | *You will need at least 4,5 points to pass the subject.* | **11p** |

> 

Reviewer: Each milestone 1p
PM Fair 2p

> 

Reviewer 2: That works, we need to have a scoring sheet for each of them. A good idea is to use the hardware and software complexity. For instance, if they have a PCB they can get up to 1.5 for hardware, and if they have conplex software, like new drivers, they could get more for this.
